C1-10P, commonly known as "Chopper," or simply "Chop," was a masculine C1-series astromech droid manufactured by Industrial Automaton that was active during the Clone Wars and the early years of the Galactic Empire. He was a member of the Spectres, a rebel cell led by the Twi'lek captain Hera Syndulla and the Jedi Kanan Jarrus that fought against the Empire. He was responsible for maintaining the Ghost, a modified VCX-100 light freighter which served as the rebel cell's main base of operations. During his time with the crew of the Ghost, Chopper took part in numerous raids and missions against Imperial targets. Due to his old age and lack of regular maintenance, Chopper developed an argumentative, cantankerous, and mischievous personality. Despite these personality flaws, he was a loyal member of his rebel crew. Later, Chopper and his fellow rebels joined the Phoenix Cell, which was part of the rebellion. In 3 BBY, he befriended the Imperial RA-7 protocol droid AP-5. Together, the two played an important role in helping the Phoenix rebels discover a new base on the planet Atollon, which was named Chopper Base in Chopper's honor. Over the years, Chopper would continue serving the Spectres as the group became involved in the Alliance to Restore the Republic. Chopper would also remain by Hera's side during the Galactic Civil War. During the Clone Wars, Chopper served the Republic Navy as a navigational astromech and was part of the Ryloth campaign. During the battle, his BTL-B Y-wing fighter-bomber was shot down and he was damaged, leading to him being found by Hera Syndulla, a young Twi'lek girl who was the daughter of the Twi'lek Resistance leader Cham Syndulla. Due to his crash landing, Chopper still had issues with Y-wings and refused to ride in one. Chopper then came into the services of young Hera. Following the Clone Wars, the Galactic Republic became the Galactic Empire, which refused to leave Ryloth. Cham came to devote more time to the Resistance's cause of freeing Ryloth and neglected his own family, particularly his daughter Hera. Due to the death of her mother and her father's neglect, Hera came to devote more time to Chopper than her own father, which strained relations between father and daughter. When Hera left Ryloth to join the rebellion, Chopper followed his master offworld. When Hera acquired the Ghost, a modified VCX-100 light freighter, Chopper was charged with maintaining the ship. The astromech droid modified the ship's systems to the extent that only he could interact with the ship's computer. As time passed by, Chopper became acquainted with the other members of the Spectres: the Jedi Kanan Jarrus, the Lasat Honor Guard Captain Garazeb Orrelios, and the Mandalorian teenager Sabine Wren. At the request of Senator Bail Organa and Rebel Command, Chopper, his fellow Spectres, and Rex undertook a mission to find Saw Gerrera and to continue his mission to investigate the disappearance of the Geonosian species. As they entered Geonosis' dusty atmosphere, Chopper steered the Ghost's steering vanes under Hera's orders. After landing near the site where Saw had lost contact with Rebel Command, Chopper accompanied Kanan, Ezra, and Rex into a Geonosian structure which led into an underground labyrinth. While underground, Chopper and his comrades discovered discarded helmets and sealed up tunnels. While Kanan and Chopper wanted to return, Ezra and Rex insisted on pressing on with the mission. After reaching a dead-end, the rebels were attacked by several B1 battle droids and a droideka. The rebels were rescued by Saw, who destroyed the droids with grenades. Saw informed the rebels that he and his team had discovered an operational deflector shield generator. They had been attacked by a Geonosian who had killed his comrades. Believing that the Geonosian held the key to what the Empire was doing on Geonosis, Saw convinced the Spectres and Rex to assist him in capturing the Geonosian. Chopper and his fellow rebels soon arrived at a large air shaft. Under Kanan's orders, Chopper shone his search light at the other side of the shaft. As a result, the rebels discovered the presence of a Geonosian, who activated his remote controller before fleeing into the labyrinth. Under Kanan's orders, Chopper activated his rocket boosters and joined Ezra in pursuing the Geonosian. Following a protracted pursuit, the rebels managed to trap and capture the Geonosian.The Geonosian did not respond to Saw's aggressive interrogation methods, but Ezra managed to gain his trust and nicknamed him "Klik-Klak." After Chopper picked up an energy reading, Klik-Klak reluctantly led the rebels to his nest. There, the rebels discovered a transmitter, which Chopper and Rex promptly began working on to establish contact with Hera. Klik-Klak also revealed that he was the custodian of a Geonosian queen egg. Following a heated discussion, Kanan agreed to allow Saw to take Klik-Klak offworld for interrogation on the condition that he was returned safely to Geonosis.After Chopper and Rex established contact with the Ghost, Kanan instructed Hera to rendezvous with them at the central air shaft. Hera managed to pick up Chopper, his fellow rebels, and Klik-Klak. Once on board, an argument broke out between the Spectres, Rex, and Saw. Saw broke his deal and attempted to take Klik-Klak with him offworld on the Phantom II. During the altercation, Saw even threatened to shoot the Geonosian queen egg. The rebels put aside their differences in order to repel a boarding party of Jumptroopers, which had been dispatched from Captain Brunson's Imperial light cruiser.After fighting off the Jumptroopers, the Ghost fled into the depths of Geonosis. There, they discovered evidence in the form of poison canisters which proved that the Empire had indeed perpetrated genocide against the Geonosians. After collecting visual imagery of the canisters, the rebels freed Klik-Klak and the Geonosian queen egg. The rebels then blasted their way through Brunson's light cruiser by firing proton torpedoes. Later, Chopper stayed behind with Captain Garazeb Orrelios, AP-5, and a communications officer to guard Chopper Base while the other rebels departed on a training exercise. Zeb was unhappy because he did not get on well with either Chopper or AP-5. When AP-5 asked what Zeb did, Chopper replied that they never figured out. Chopper declined AP-5's call for help in compiling an inventory of the weapons in the munitions depot. To avoid work, Chopper accompanied Zeb to the command center where the comm officer informed that a sensor beacon in Sector 6 had been struck by meteors. Chopper was initially unwilling to help Zeb but changed his mind after AP-5 reiterated his request for help. Chopper and Zeb traveled to Sector 6 in a landspeeder. After finding the damaged sensor beacon, the two found a stray "protocol droid" caught among two dead krykna. While Zeb wanted to take it back to base, Chopper advocated trashing the stray droid. However, Zeb was able to overrule Chopper as Chief of Security. The two droids then returned to Chopper Base with the stray protocol and AP-5 began to recharge the droid. After the droid revived and began scanning the munitions depot, AP-5 decided to take on the new droid as his assistant inventory droid. When the new droid identified Chopper as an obsolete C1-series astromech droid, Chopper protested but Zeb joked that he had found someone else who did not like Chopper. Chopper stayed behind with AP-5 and the new droid while Zeb headed back to the command center. There, Zeb learned from Fulcrum that the new droid was actually an E-XD-series infiltrator droid dispatched by the Empire to probe the Outer Rim for rebel bases. This Infiltrator Droid was designated EXD-9 and had lost contact with the Empire shortly after landing. Chopper was accompanying AP-5 and EXD-9 on a tour when Zeb raised the alarm. After hearing the word "rebel," EXD-9 assumed combat position and identified Chopper, AP-5 and Zeb as threats. EXD-9 attacked the three rebels. When EXD-9 proceeded to pound Zeb, Chopper tried to drive the intruder away by using his electro-shock transmitter. However, EXD-9 hurled Chopper with his mechanized fists against several crates. After Zeb managed to damage the droid by severing its left arm, EXD-9 fled into the depot to hide. Zeb then attended to Chopper, who remarked bluntly "I told you so" while AP-5 translated. The three rebels then proceeded to find the Infiltrator Droid and soon discovered that EXD-9 had cannibalized another astromech droid for power and spare parts. Chopper was unable to detect EXD-9's energy readings since the intruder was low on power. Chopper aided Zeb and AP-5's plan to lure EXD-9 out of hiding by acting as a bait. Chopper soon discovered EXD-9 cannibalizing a GNK power droid and led him on a chase. Zeb then leaped down from an overhead bridge and fought with AP-5. Chopper tried to shock EXD-9 but the Infiltrator Droid kicked him away. Following a fierce struggle, AP-5 managed to deactivate the intruder. When EXD-9 began to initiate its self-destruct mechanism, Chopper froze the countdown circuit before it could detonate a proton warhead. Following some discussion, Zeb and AP-5 decided to reprogram EXD-9 and use him as a rigged bomb to destroy his Imperial base in order to protect the location of Chopper Base from the Empire. Chopper watched as AP-5 reprogrammed EXD-9 and his timer. Chopper and the other rebels then followed EXD-9 on their landspeeder back to its pod. After Zeb disabled the pod's long-range transmitter, the Infiltrator Droid flew back to its Star Destroyer. As planned, the Infiltrator Droid destroyed the ship and several other Infiltrator Droids. Despite slowing down Grand Admiral Thrawn's hunt for the rebels, Thrawn still managed to reduce the search to 94 systems. The following day, Chopper along with Zeb and AP-5 greeted Captain Syndulla and the other Spectres. While Hera was annoyed that they had been recalled after just one day, they later learned from Fulcrum that EXD-9 had destroyed a Star Destroyer.